# Balaji_Sathyanarayanan_Completed_Projects

Projects
Name: Balaji Sathyanarayanan

1.	Road Roughness Mapping System
2.	Public Network Credentials Protection System
3.	MLOps with Databricks in Public Clouds
4.	Distracted Driver Detection System

Road Roughness Mapping System
Many roads in Boston are littered with potholes, remnants of poor repair work, and generally rough surfaces. As a result, vehicle drivers are burdened with huge damage costs and the suspension/bumper of vehicles face significant damages. Vehicle drivers and pedestrians are injured and fatal accidents occur in some cases as well. This calls for a smart system which would grade road roughness and provide the relevant pothole information to the user. 
The final deliverable will be a system that comprises an application, sensors, machine learning code, and a cloud service which work together to give the user a safe driving experience. The system will assess road roughness and display the locations of potholes on a clean user interface. The sensors (accelerometer, GPS) and camera in the smartphone collect pothole/location data and the aggregated data is uploaded to the cloud. Multiple machine learning models are trained on the collected data to predict the grade of roughness. The pothole information is displayed on our application integrated with Google Maps. 
Cloud computing and deep learning are growing fields in the technology industry right now. Enterprises are moving their workloads to the cloud for cheap and effective management of resources. With the advent of big data, neural networks have become prevalent and are used extensively in many of the applications that we use every day. Our project trains multiple models for learning patterns in the collected dataset and information is stored on a cloud service for secure and easy storage. We value our user’s privacy and many privacy features are included in our system for secure data collection. 

Public Network Credentials Protection System
	As big data is a growing field in the industry today, people are sending huge amounts of data across networks for various practical purposes. Communication channels and networks were built with the idea of transferring information and little importance was given to security concerns, and sending information over a public network is not secure. Security measures have to be implemented to ensure secure communication. For example, VPNs are normally used to connect to the internet through public Wi-Fi. We are taking a multi-fold approach to ensure secure communication over an unsecured network. 

Our group implemented a two pronged approach to solving the problem, the generation of decoy passwords to prevent password sniffing and a mandatory delay in response time to prevent timing channel attacks. To test our implementations, we set up a simple UDP server through the localhost IP address and client to communicate with each other. We also used Wireshark to sniff any incoming or outgoing packets.

Decoy passwords are generated by our system and stored in our database. A decoy password is sent over the network every time the client sends a message to the server. If the unauthorized user sniffs the decoy password and enters it as the password to access the system, the IP address of the user is blocked. We also prevented timing channel attacks by having a fixed client response time. The user will not be able to guess the password based on the client response time since there is a mandatory delay in response time. 


MLOps with Databricks in Public Clouds
Machine learning is a subset of AI which is extensively leveraged in many practical applications today. A machine learning model is implemented through a machine learning lifecycle. A ML lifecycle is a series of steps which are executed to produce and deploy a machine learning model. A ML pipeline is related to the ML lifecycle. The pipeline is a process to automate the workflow it takes to produce a ML model. It is an iterative process consisting of independent modules which are repeated multiple times to increase the efficiency of the ML model.
Our project is MLOps with Databricks in public clouds. MLOps stands for Machine Learning Operations. It is a core function of Machine Learning engineering, focused on streamlining the process of taking machine learning models to production, and then maintaining and monitoring them. It can also be thought of as a set of practices that aims to deploy and maintain ML models in production efficiently and reliably.
The financial firm we are working with has many in-house built ML pipelines which are centrally managed by different departments on the on-prem MLOps solutions, Datarobot (a ML platform that manages models). Databricks is another platform which can deal with huge amounts of data and we can explore the data through ML models. Databricks has extended capabilities and features when compared with Datarobot. We investigated the MLOps capabilities of Databricks. We evaluated the possibility of transitioning MLOps workloads from on-prem Datarobot to public cloud Databricks. We also replicated some MLOps pipelines deployed in on-prem Datarobot in Databricks on two public clouds. Solutions were evaluated from ease of transformation, cost, and efficiency perspectives.
By and large, our end goal was to give our collaborators a starting point to help them migrate to Databricks. We gave them enough information and documentation to make the transition a seamless process. We also contested Databricks against the current platform they are using in order for them to know the advantages of using Databricks over the other.

Distracted Driver Detection System
The main objective of the project is to detect driver distractions using images which can be scaled into 4 wheeler dash cams and alert the drivers on go. It would help prevent several accidents on roads. The idea of the project was from a journal 'Distracted driver detection by combining in-vehicle and image data using deep learning' by Furkan Omerustaoglu, C. Okan Sakar, and Gorkem Kar. 
The paper combined image data and vehicle data (fuel consumption, torque, etc.) to detect distracted drivers. We focused on image dataset and model optimization solely since neither the vehicle data nor the code is available publicly. We trained VGG-16 and Inception V3 models mentioned in the paper, and also used Resnet50 and AlexNet models to compare the efficiency of the models. 
The code also includes grad cam visualizations of randomly selected test data images along with ground truth labels and top 2 predictions. We measured model efficiency using several metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, f1-scores per class, and top 2 accuracy. Resnet50 had the highest accuracy with almost 91%.




	
	


